about/README.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: About
permalink: /about/
---
# About OP-TEE

OP-TEE is an open source project which contains a full implementation to make up a complete Trusted Execution Environment. The project has roots in a proprietary solution, initially created by ST-Ericsson and then owned and maintained by STMicroelectronics. In 2014, Linaro started working with STMicroelectronics to transform the proprietary TEE solution into an open source TEE solution instead.

In September 2015, the ownership was transferred to Linaro. Today it is one of the key security projects in Linaro, with several of Linaro’s members supporting and using it.

## Mailing lists:

op-tee@linaro.org (reach OP-TEE developers)
[tee-dev](https://lists.linaro.org/mailman/admindb/tee-dev) (public discussion about TEE in general)

Issues, bugs etc?
Please file an issue on our “[Issues](https://github.com/OP-TEE/optee_os/issues)” list at GitHub.

## Source Code

It is located on GitHub under the project OP-TEE (https://github.com/OP-TEE).
[Click here for FAQ](/faq/)

Commit message:

Updated title & description
Updated title
Description was missing

about/README.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: About Open Source Trusted Execution Environment
permalink: /about/
description: |-
  OP-TEE is an open source project which contains a full implementation to make up a complete Trusted Execution Environment. 
---
# About OP-TEE

OP-TEE is an open source project which contains a full implementation to make up a complete Trusted Execution Environment. The project has roots in a proprietary solution, initially created by ST-Ericsson and then owned and maintained by STMicroelectronics. In 2014, Linaro started working with STMicroelectronics to transform the proprietary TEE solution into an open source TEE solution instead.

In September 2015, the ownership was transferred to Linaro. Today it is one of the key security projects in Linaro, with several of Linaro’s members supporting and using it.

## Mailing lists:

op-tee@linaro.org (reach OP-TEE developers)
[tee-dev](https://lists.linaro.org/mailman/admindb/tee-dev) (public discussion about TEE in general)

Issues, bugs etc?
Please file an issue on our “[Issues](https://github.com/OP-TEE/optee_os/issues)” list at GitHub.

## Source Code

It is located on GitHub under the project OP-TEE (https://github.com/OP-TEE).
[Click here for FAQ](/faq/)
